DOC-1397:  Connect - Initial docs (#1953)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/connect/architecture.md

---
Title: Redis Connect architecture and components
linkTitle: Architecture & components
description: Describes the architecture and components of Redis Connect
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Connect"]
aliases: /connect/architecture/
         /connect/architecture.md
---

> Redis Connect relies on a variety components, as shown in the following figure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redis Connect relies on a variety of components, as shown in the following figure:
```

Author: Fixed.

{{<image filename="images/connect/redis-connect-architecture.png" alt="Redis Connect architecture and components" width="75%">}}{{< /image >}}

For Preview, Redis Connect uses [Debezium](https://debezium.io/) to load source data into a Redis Connect instance as [Redis Streams](https://redis.io/docs/manual/data-types/streams/).

Currently, Redis Connect uses the [Debezium Redis Sink Connector](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/operations/debezium-server.html#_redis_stream).  Future plans include support for additional connectors and a related SDK.

> Once data in loaded into the Redis Connect instance, [Redis Gears recipes](https://developer.redis.com/howtos/redisgears/) transform it into a format appropriate to the target Redis database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once data is loaded into the Redis Connect instance, [RedisGears recipes](https://developer.redis.com/howtos/redisgears/) transform it into a format appropriate for the target Redis database.
```

> Once data in loaded into the Redis Connect instance, [Redis Gears recipes](https://developer.redis.com/howtos/redisgears/) transform it into a format appropriate to the target Redis database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once data in loaded into the Redis Connect instance, [RedisGears recipes](https://developer.redis.com/howtos/redisgears/) transform it into a format appropriate to the target Redis database.
```

Currently, incoming database rows are transformed into [Redis hashes](https://redis.io/docs/manual/data-types/#hashes) that incorporate the original table name into key names.  Future updates will add additional transformations, such as [RedisJSON documents](https://redis.io/docs/stack/json/).

## Data transformation engine

> The Redis Connect data transformation engine uses Redis Gears to perform two major functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Redis Connect data transformation engine uses RedisGears to perform two major functions:
```

Author: Fixed.

- Data transformation

    The Redis Connect Preview uses Debezium to extract data from relational database sources.  
    
    Future versions will support additional data serialization options, such as [Apache Avro](https://avro.apache.org/), as well as denormalized data modules or sources
    
- Writing data

    As Redis Connect writes data to the target database, it ensures order and prevents data loss.  In addition, writers can be configured to ignore, reject, or retain individual data entities.

## Credentials and secrets

Redis Connect requires the following credentials and secrets:

- The Redis Connect Data Transformation Engine requires the credentials and certificate to connect and write encrypted data to the target Redis database

- The Debezium Redis Sink Connector requires the credentials and certificate to connect and write data into the Redis Connect database

- The Debezium Source Connector requires read access to the source database, including related secrets

> - Redis Connect CLI requires a certificates needed to connect to the Redis Enterprise cluster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Redis Connect CLI requires any certificates needed to connect to the Redis Enterprise cluster 
```

Author: Fixed

>     In order to run the `create` command, Redis Connect CLI the credentials of a privileged user.  These credentials are not cached or stored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In order to run the `create` command, Redis Connect CLI requires the credentials of a privileged user.  These credentials are not cached or stored.
```

Author: Fixed.

There are several ways to provide required credentials and certificates:

- You can enter them manually when using Redis Connect CLI

- Store them as environment variables

- Leverage a key management service, such as Google Cloud [Key Management](https://cloud.google.com/security-key-management), Microsoft Azure [Key Vault](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/), [HashiCorp Vault](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault), [and others](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key_management)
  

## Scalability and availability

Redis Connect is highly available:

> - Debezium Server is deployed using [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) or [Pacemaker](https://clusterlabs.org/pacemaker/), when enables failover between stateless instances while securing state information in Redis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Debezium Server is deployed using [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) or [Pacemaker](https://clusterlabs.org/pacemaker/), which enables failover between stateless instances while securing state information in Redis
```

Author: Fixed.

- Redis Connect relies on Redis Enterprise high availability mechanisms, such as replica shards, cluster configuration, and so on

> - Horizontal scalability is handled by splitting incoming data streams across multiple shards and writing updates in parallel.  Original table order is retained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Horizontal scalability is handled by splitting incoming data streams across multiple shards and writing updates in parallel.  The original table order is retained.
```

Author: Fixed.

## Tested topologies

> Redis Connect runs on Redis Enterprise, which means it works on any deployment, whether "bare metal," virtual machines (VMs), or containers.  Redis Connect can be run on the same cluster as the target Redis database or update a database stored on a separate cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redis Connect runs on Redis Enterprise, which means it works on any deployment, whether "bare metal," virtual machines (VMs), or containers.  Redis Connect can run on the same cluster as the target Redis database or update a database stored on a separate cluster.
```

Author: Fixed.

Debezium Server should run in "warm standby" [high availability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_availability_software).  We recommend one of the following:

> - Run using two VMs in an active-passive configuration.  /

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Run using two VMs in an active-passive configuration.  
```

    Failover should be orchestrated by a high availability resource manager, such as  [Pacemaker](https://clusterlabs.org/pacemaker/doc/)

- Run as a [Kubernetes pod](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kubernetes#Pods) where Kubernetes monitors pod activity (liveliness and readiness) and recovers non-functioning pods

>     Note that Redis Connect stores state information in the Redis Connect instance.  No state information is stored at the connector level  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Note that Redis Connect stores state information in the Redis Connect instance.  No state information is stored at the connector level.
```
